---
layout: post
title: basic_comprehension_of_a_flux_driven_josephson_parametric_amplifier
date: 2024-02-09
description: >
  The first combined comprehension about JPA.
categories: studies
hide_description: true
use_math: true
---

# Basic Comprehension of a Flux Driven Josephson Parametric Amplifier

The Josephson Parametric Amplifier (JPA) is one of the quantum-noise-limited amplifiers widely used for low noise signal readouts, from axion haloscopes [1] to quantum computers [2].
Especially for axion haloscopes, JPAs are used as the first stage amplifiers right after a cavity since the total system noise is mainly determined by the noise temperature of the first stage amplifier of the system.
Moreover, the resonance tunability of JPAs enables the combination of JPAs with tunable cavities.
As a quantized circuit element, a modern theoretical model of the JPA [3] is not that simple.
Nevertheless, it is possible to describe their overall features by harmonically combining basic concepts from classical mechanics, circuit theory, and quantum mechanics.
In this section, I provide a theoretical comprehension of JPAs, including their resonance tunability, gain, noise, and the principle of signal amplification.   


## DC SQUID
A DC SQUID is the most important component inside a JPA.
It makes the resonant frequency of the JPA tunable, and opens a way to exploiting the parametric amplification.
The DC SQUID is a loop consisting of two Josephson junctions.
I start with explaining the physics of Josephson junctions and how it is applied to the DC SQUID.   

### Josephson Junction
A Josephson junction is a weak link, or a small gap working as a superconducting tunnel between two superconductors.
A significant feature of the Josephson junction is that a Cooper pair, not only a single electron, can flow through the weak link via quantum tunneling effect without power dissipation.
A Josephson junction has its own critical current $I_s$, the maximum current flowing across the junction without voltage drop (power dissipation).
An important characteristic of the weak link is that the phase gradient $\nabla\theta$ of an electron wave function is quite large compared to the phase gradients inside the superconductors.
Especially for a tunnel junction, usually phase difference $\varphi=\theta_2-\theta_1$ is used instead of the gradient.
I will show that the relation between the current flowing through the Josephson junction $I_s$ and the phase difference $\varphi$ across it.   

Consider the Schr\"{o}dinger equation of the system with a discrete wave function basis expansion $\Psi(t)=\sum_\alpha C_{\alpha}(t)\psi_{\alpha}$.

$$ i\hbar\frac{dC_\beta}{dt} = \sum_\alpha H_{\beta \alpha} C_\alpha(t) \tag{1.1} $$

Note that $H_{ii}$ is the energy of the system in the state $\psi_i$ and $H_{ij}$ is representing the transition probability between two states $\psi_i$ and $\psi_j$.
Now assume that the current through the Josephson junction is so larger ($I_s > I_c$)that there is voltage $V$ across the junction.
Here I introduce the Feynman's approach~\cite{VV_textbook}: we consider a system of Cooper pairs as a two-level quantum mechanical system.
That is, an electron pair (with charge $2e$) can occupy either level 1 or 2, with corresponding energy $H_{11}$ and $H_{22}$.
Since there is a voltage $V$ across the junction, we can easily set $H_{11}=+eV$ and $H_{22}=-eV$.
Also, introducing the transition element $H_{12}=H_{21}=K$, a system of differential equations associated with the Hamiltonian is established.

$$
  H =
    \begin{pmatrix} 
   eV & K  \\
   K & -eV  \\
   \end{pmatrix} \tag{1.2}
$$

$$\begin{cases}
i\hbar\frac{dC_1}{dt}=eVC_1(t)+KC_2(t) \\
i\hbar\frac{dC_2}{dt}=KC_1(t)-eVC_2(t) \tag{1.3}
\end{cases}$$

Provided that $C_1$ is the amplitude of the pair state at level 1, a physical interpretation forces one to set $|C_1|^2=n_s$, where $n_s$ is the density of superconducting electrons in the junction electrodes.
For simplicity, assuming that both electrodes are made of the same material, $C_1$ and $C_2$ can be written as

$$ C_1=\sqrt{n_s}e^{i\theta_1}, C_2=\sqrt{n_s}e^{i\theta_2}. \tag{1.4} $$

Substituting these in (\ref{eq:1-3}), following equations are obtained with $\varphi=\theta_2-\theta_1$.

$$\begin{dcases}
    i\hbar\frac{dn_s}{dt}-2\hbar n_s\frac{d\theta_1}{dt}=2eVn_s+2Kn_se^{i\varphi}\\
    i\hbar\frac{dn_s}{dt}-2\hbar n_s\frac{d\theta_2}{dt}=2Kn_se^{-i\varphi}-2eVn_s \tag{1.5}
\end{dcases}$$

By separating real and imaginary parts,
$$\begin{split}
        \frac{dn_s}{dt}&=\frac{2Kn_s}{\hbar}\sin{\varphi}\\
        \frac{d\theta_1}{dt}&=-\frac{K}{\hbar}\cos{\varphi}-\frac{eV}{\hbar}\\
        \frac{d\theta_2}{dt}&=-\frac{K}{\hbar}\cos{\varphi}+\frac{eV}{\hbar}
    \end{split} \tag{1.6}$$







## Reference

[1] Çağlar Kutlu, Arjan F van Loo, Sergey V Uchaikin, Andrei N Matlashov, Doyu Lee, Seonjeong Oh, Jinsu Kim,
Woohyun Chung, Yasunobu Nakamura, and Yannis K Semertzidis. Characterization of a flux-driven josephson
parametric amplifier with near quantum-limited added noise for axion search experiments. Superconductor
Science and Technology, 34(8):085013, 2021.   
   
[2] Jose Aumentado. Superconducting parametric amplifiers: The state of the art in josephson parametric amplifiers.
IEEE Microwave magazine, 21(8):45–59, 2020.   
   
[3] Yoshihisa Yamamoto and Kouichi Semba. Principles and Methods of Quantum Information Technologies,
volume 624. Springer, 2016.   
   
[4] Vadim Vasil’evich Schmidt and Paul Müller. The physics of superconductors: Introduction to fundamentals and
applications. Springer Science & Business Media, 1997.   
   
[5] Tsuyoshi Yamamoto, K Inomata, M Watanabe, K Matsuba, T Miyazaki, William D Oliver, Yasunobu Nakamura,
and JS Tsai. Flux-driven josephson parametric amplifier. Applied Physics Letters, 93(4), 2008.   
[6] Philip Krantz. The Josephson parametric oscillator–From microscopic studies to single-shot qubit readout.
Chalmers Tekniska Hogskola (Sweden), 2016.   
   
[7] MJ Collett and DF Walls. Quantum limits to light amplifiers. Physical review letters, 61(21):2442, 1988.   
   
[8] M Renger, S Pogorzalek, Q Chen, Y Nojiri, K Inomata, Y Nakamura, M Partanen, A Marx, R Gross, F Deppe,
et al. Beyond the standard quantum limit for parametric amplification of broadband signals. npj Quantum
Information, 7(1):160, 2021.   
   
[9] L Zhong, EP Menzel, R Di Candia, P Eder, M Ihmig, A Baust, M Haeberlein, E Hoffmann, K Inomata,
T Yamamoto, et al. Squeezing with a flux-driven josephson parametric amplifier. New Journal of Physics, 15
(12):125013, 2013.   
   
[10] Aashish A Clerk, Michel H Devoret, Steven M Girvin, Florian Marquardt, and Robert J Schoelkopf. Introduction
to quantum noise, measurement, and amplification. Reviews of Modern Physics, 82(2):1155, 2010.   
   
[11] Manuel Angel Castellanos Beltran. Development of a Josephson parametric amplifier for the preparation and
detection of nonclassical states of microwave fields. PhD thesis, University of Colorado at Boulder, 2010.   
   

